The Project Gutenberg eBook of Book No. 006: Bulkies, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Book No. 006: Bulkies
       Sweaters to Knit and Crochet

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: September 11, 2021 [eBook #66271]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOOK NO. 006: BULKIES ***




                                                                     35¢




                                BULKIES
                              BOOK No. 006




                               Play Time


                          BOY’S HOODED JACKET
                       (ILLUSTRATED ON BACK COVER)
                         SIZES: 7, 8, 10 and 12




Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  Dawn Knitting Worsted or
  Dawn “Sayelle”[1]
  7 (7, 8, 8)—4-oz. skeins

  1 pair knitting needles size 10 or Any Size Needles Which Will Result
              in Stitch Gauge Below
  1 crochet hook size G

  Gauge:
  4 sts = 1 inch; 6 rows = 1 inch

  1—14 (16, 16, 16)″ Star Lightweight Separating Zipper

  Finished Measurements:
  Chest—28¾ (30¼, 31¼, 32¾)″;
  Back Length—15½ (16, 17, 17½)″

  Suggested Color: Gold

  Sizes:
  Directions are for Size 7. Changes for Sizes 8, 10 and 12 are in
              parentheses.


BACK

Starting at lower edge with double strand of yarn, cast on 57 (59, 63,
65) sts.

ROWS 1-5: Work even in stockinette st (k 1 row, p 1 row). End with a k
row.

ROW 6: K across row on wrong side for hemline. ROW 7: * K 1, with yarn
in back of work, sl 1 as if to p; repeat from * to last st, k 1. ROW 8:
P across row. Repeat Rows 7 & 8 for pattern. ROWS 9-50 (52, 52, 54):
Work even in pattern. About 7¼, (7¾, 7¾, 8)″ from hemline. Piece should
measure 14¼ (14¾, 15¾, 16¼)″ across.

SHAPE RAGLAN ARMHOLE: ROWS 1 & 2: Keeping in pattern as established,
bind off 4 sts at beg of each row. ROW 3: Work even. ROWS 4-46 (49, 52,
55): Dec 1 st at beg and end of this and every 3rd row 14 (15, 16, 17)
times more. (To dec at beg of row: Sl first st, k or p 2nd st, depending
on which side of work decs fall, psso. To dec at end of row: K 2 tog or
p 2 tog, again depending on side of work.) ROWS 47 & 48: (50, 53 & 54,
56): Work even—19 (19, 21, 21) sts. ROW 49 (51, 55, 57): Bind off
remaining sts. About 15½ (16, 17, 17½)″ from hemline.


LEFT FRONT

Starting at lower edge with double strand of yarn, cast on 29 (31, 31,
33) sts. ROWS 1-5: Work even in stockinette stitch, starting with a k
row. ROW 6: K across row on wrong side for hemline. ROWS 7-50 (52, 52,
54): Work even in pattern as on Back. Piece should measure 7¼ (7¾, 7¾,
8¼)″ across.

SHAPE RAGLAN ARMHOLE: ROW 1: Keeping in pattern as established, bind off
4 sts at beg of row. ROWS 2 & 3: Work even. ROWS 4-46 (49, 52, 55): Dec
1 st at arm edge on this and every 3rd row 14 (15, 16, 17) times more.
ROWS 47 & 48 (50, 53 & 54, 56): Work even—10 (11, 10, 11) sts. ROW 49
(51, 55, 57): Bind off remaining sts.


RIGHT FRONT

With double strand of yarn, cast on 29 (31, 31, 33) sts. Work same as
Left Front, reversing all shaping.


SLEEVES

Starting at lower edge with double strand of yarn, cast on 25 (27, 29,
31) sts. ROWS 1-5: Work even in stockinette stitch, starting with a k
row. ROW 6: K across row on wrong side for hemline. ROWS 7-24: Work even
in pattern as on Back. ROWS 25-80 (80, 85, 85): Keeping in pattern as
established, inc 1 st at beg and end of this and every 5th row 11 (11,
12, 12) times more. ROWS 81-84 (81-86, 86-96, 86-106): Work even—49 (51,
55, 57) sts. About 13 (13¼, 15, 16½)″ from hemline. Piece should measure
12 (12¾, 13½, 14)″ across.

SHAPE RAGLAN CAP: ROWS 1 & 2: Keeping in pattern as established, bind
off 4 sts at beg of each row. ROW 3: Work even. ROWS 4-46 (49, 52, 55):
Dec 1 st at beg and end of this and every 3rd row 14 (15, 16, 17) times
more. ROWS 47 & 48 (50, 53 & 54, 56): Work even—11 (11, 13, 13) sts. ROW
49 (51, 55, 57): Bind off remaining sts. About 21 (22, 24, 26)″ from
hemline.


HOOD

Starting at Neck edge with double strand of yarn, cast on 71 (73, 77,
79) sts. ROW 1: K 4, with yarn in back of work, sl 1 as if to p, work in
pattern across next 61 (63, 67, 69) sts, sl 1, k 4. (Note: The k 4 and
sl 1 at each end of row will be turned under for casing.) ROW 2: P
across row. ROWS 3-48 (50, 52, 54): Work even in pattern, repeating Rows
1 & 2. ROW 49 (51, 53, 55): Keeping in pattern as established, work
across 35 (36, 38, 39) sts, place a marker on needle, sl next st, place
a marker on needle, work remaining 35 (36, 38, 39) sts. ROW 50 (52, 54,
56): P across row. ROWS 51-69 (53-73, 55-77, 57-81): Keeping in pattern
as established, dec 1 st before first marker and after 2nd marker on
this and every other row 9 (10, 11, 12) times more, slipping the st
between markers as if to p on each dec row. (To dec before marker: Work
in pattern to within 2 sts of marker, sl 1, k 1, psso. To dec after
marker: K 2 tog.) ROW 70 (74, 78, 82): P across row—51 (51, 53, 53) sts.
ROW 71 (75, 79, 83): Bind off remaining sts. About 12 (12½, 13, 14)″
from beg.


FINISHING

Using single strand of yarn, join raglan seams. Join side, Sleeve and
Hood seams. With double strand of yarn, crochet a row of sc on both
sides of Jacket Front above hemline. Join Hood to Jacket. Hem Hood,
Sleeves and lower edge of Jacket, leaving ends open at neck and zipper
edge. Sew separating zipper into Front opening.


TIES

With double strand of yarn, crochet a chain about 50 (50, 55, 55)″ long
for bottom of Jacket and a chain about 45″ long for Hood, sl st in each
ch across. Fasten off. Thread through casings formed by Hood and Jacket
hems.




                             Skiers Beware!


                     GIRL’S CROCHETED HOODED JACKET
                         SIZES 7, 8, 10 and 12

    [Illustration: Jacket]




Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  Dawn Knitting Worsted
  9 (9, 10, 10)—4 oz. skeins A
  2 (2, 3, 3)—4 oz. skeins B

  1 crochet hook size K Or Any Size Hook Which Will Result In Stitch
              Gauge Below

  Gauge:
  5 sts = 2 inches;
  5 rows = 2¼ inches

  1¾ (1¾, 2, 2) yds. 36″—wide lining fabric to match color A
  1¾ (1¾, 2, 2) yds. 36″—wide bonding material
  1-16 (16, 18, 18)″ Star Separating Lightweight Metal Zipper to match
              color B

  Finished Measurements:
  Chest—29½ (31¼, 32¾, 34½)″;
  Back Length (from neck to lower edge)—17 (17¾, 19½, 20½)″

  Suggested Color Scheme:
  A—Violet; B—Beige

  Sizes:
  Directions are for Size 7. Changes for Sizes 8, 10, and 12 are in
              parentheses.


BACK

Starting at lower edge with double strand of A and size K hook, ch 39
(39, 43, 43). ROW 1: Sc in 2nd ch from hook and each remaining ch. Ch 1,
turn—38 (38, 42, 42) sts. ROWS 2-5: Sc in each st across row. Ch 1,
turn. ROW 6: Work 1 sc and 1 dc in first st, * sk next st, work 1 sc and
1 dc in next st; repeat from * to last 3 sts, sk next st, sc in next st,
dc in last st. Ch 1 to turn all rows—38 (38, 42, 42) sts. (Repeat Row 6
for pattern.) ROWS 7-24 (26, 28, 30): Work even in pattern. About 10
(11, 12, 13)″ from beg.

SHAPE ARMHOLE AND RAGLAN: ROWS 25-38 (27-40, 29-44, 31-46): Keeping
pattern as established, dec 1 sc and 1 dc at beg of row, work 1 sc and 1
dc in next st, work in pattern across remaining sts—36 (36, 40, 40) sts.
(To dec 1 sc: Draw up a loop in first 2 sts, yarn over and draw through
all 3 loops on hook. To dec 1 dc: Keeping last loop of each st on hook,
work 1 dc in each of next 2 sts, yarn over and draw through all 3 loops
on hook.) ROW 39 (41, 45, 47): Work even in pattern. Fasten off. About
17 (17¾, 19½, 20½)″ from beg.


LEFT FRONT

With double strand of A, ch 19 (21, 21, 23). ROWS 1-5: Work same as Back
on 18 (20, 20, 22) sts. ROWS 6-24 (26, 28, 30): Work even in pattern
same as Row 6 of Back.

SHAPE ARMHOLE AND RAGLAN: ROWS 25-35 (27-37, 29-39, 31-43): Keeping in
pattern as established, dec 1 sc and 1 dc at beg of this and every other
row 5 (5, 5, 6) times more—6 (8, 8, 8) sts. ROW 36 (38, 40, 44): Work
even in pattern.

SHAPE NECK: ROW 37 (39, 41, 45): Keeping in pattern as established, dec
1 sc and 1 dc at beg of row. ROW 38 (40, 42, 46): Sc in first st, dc in
next st. Ch 1, turn. ROW 39 (41, 43, 47): Dec 1 sc. Fasten off.


RIGHT FRONT

Work same as Left Front, reversing all shaping.


SLEEVE

Starting at lower edge with double strand of A, ch 21 (21, 25, 25). ROWS
1-5: Work same as Back on 20 (20, 24, 24) sts. ROWS 6 & 7: Work even in
pattern same as Row 6 of Back. ROW 8: (First Increase Row) Work in
pattern across row to last 3 sts, sk next st, sc in next st, work 2 dc
in last st. ROW 9: (2nd Increase Row) Work 1 sc and 1 dc in each of
first 2 sts, sk next st, work in pattern across row, work 2 dc in last
st. ROW 10: (3rd Increase Row) Work 1 sc and 1 dc in each of first 2
sts, sk next st and work in pattern across remaining sts—24 (24, 28, 28)
sts. ROWS 11-13 (13, 15, 15): Work even in pattern. ROWS 14-25 (14-25,
16-31, 16-31): Repeat Rows 8-13 (13, 15, 15) twice. ROWS 26-28 (26-28,
32-34, 32-34): Repeat Rows 8-10—36 (36, 40, 40) sts. ROWS 29-34 (29-36,
35-38, 35-40): Work even in pattern. About 14½ (15½, 16¼, 17¼)″ from
beg.

SHAPE CAP: ROWS 35-48 (37-50, 39-54, 41-56): Keeping in pattern as
established, dec 1 sc and 1 dc at beg of each row—8 sts. ROW 49 (51, 55,
57): Work even in pattern. Fasten off. About 21½ (22½, 24¼, 25)″ from
beg.


HOOD

With double strand of A, ch 35 (39, 39, 39). ROW 1: Sc in 2nd ch from
hook and in each remaining ch across. Ch 1, turn—34 (38, 38, 38) sts.
ROWS 2-6: Work even in pattern same as Row 6 of Back. ROW 7: (Increase
Row) Work in pattern across 15 (17, 17, 17) sts, work 1 sc and 1 dc in
each of next 2 sts, work in pattern across remaining 17 (19, 19, 19)
sts—36 (40, 40, 40) sts. ROWS 8-10: Work even in pattern. ROW 11:
(Increase Row) Work in pattern across 15 (17, 17, 17) sts, work 1 sc and
1 dc in each of next 4 sts, work in pattern over remaining 17 (19, 19,
19) sts—40 (44, 44, 44) sts. ROWS 12-18 (18, 20, 20): Work even in
pattern.

SHAPE HOOD—RIGHT HALF: ROW 19 (19, 21, 21): Work in pattern across 15
(17, 17, 17) sts, sk next st, sc in following st, dc in next st. Ch 1,
turn—18 (20, 20, 20) sts. ROW 20 (20, 22, 22): Work even in pattern. ROW
21 (21, 23, 23): Work in pattern across 11 (13, 13, 13) sts, sk next st,
sc in next st, dc in next st. Ch 1, turn—14 (16, 16, 16) sts. ROW 22
(22, 24, 24): Work even in pattern. ROW 23 (23, 25, 25): Work in pattern
across 7 (9, 9, 9) sts, sk next st, sc in next st, dc in next st. Ch 1,
turn. ROW 24 (24, 26, 26): Work even in pattern. About 10¾ (10¾, 11¾,
11¾)″ from beg.

LEFT HALF: ROW 19 (19, 21, 21): Sk center 4 sts, attach double strand of
A in next st, work 1 sc and 1 dc in same place, work in pattern across
remaining sts. ROW 20 (20, 22, 22): Work even in pattern. Do not ch 1,
turn. ROW 21 (21, 23, 23): Sl st across first 4 sts, ch 1, work 1 sc and
1 dc in next st, work in pattern across remaining sts. ROW 22 (22, 24,
24): Work even in pattern. ROWS 23 & 24 (23 & 24, 25 & 26, 25 & 26):
Repeat Rows 21 & 22 (21 & 22, 23 & 24, 23 & 24). Fasten off.


FINISHING

JACKET TRIM: With double strand of B, ch 75 (79, 83, 85). ROW 1: Sc in
2nd ch from hook and in each remaining ch across. Ch 1 to turn all
rows—74 (78, 82, 84) sc. ROW 2: Work a single loop st (with double
strand of B) in each st. (Single loop st: Insert hook in st, wind yarn
clockwise around index finger, insert hook from left to right through
loops on finger, pick up both loops and pull through st, drop loops from
finger, yarn over and draw through all loops on hook.) ROW 3: Sc in each
st across row. ROWS 4-7: Repeat Rows 2 & 3 twice. ROW 8: Repeat Row 2.
Fasten off.

SLEEVE TRIM (Make 2): With double strand of B, ch 21 (21, 25, 25). ROWS
1-8: Work in same manner as Bottom of Jacket Trim. Fasten off.

HOOD TRIM: With double strand of B, ch 51 (51, 59, 59). ROWS 1-8: Work
in same manner as Bottom of Jacket Trim. Fasten off.

LINING: Block all pieces. Using the pieces as patterns, cut lining for
Sleeves and Jacket Fronts, leaving a ¾″ seam allowance all around. Cut
lining for Back, allowing 2″ for a 1″ back pleat and ¾″ seam allowance
all around. Cut bonding material exact size of Sleeves, Fronts and Back.
Trim ¼″ away on all edges. Tack edges of bonding securely all around to
wrong side of blocked pieces ¼″ in from edge of crocheted piece. Adhere
bonding according to manufacturer’s directions. Sew side and sleeve
seams. Sew Sleeves into place along raglan edges. With double strand of
A, sc around neck edge. Fasten off. Sew Hood seam; sew Hood into place
through back loop of sc row. With double strand of A, sc around front
edges of Jacket and Hood on right side of work. Sew separating zipper
into position. Sew loop st borders to lower edge of Sleeves and Jacket
and around front edge of Hood. With right sides together sew lining
pieces together in same manner as Jacket making a ⅝″ seam. Press under
½″ on all raw edges. Make a 1″ pleat in center back lining and press.
Insert lining in Jacket, wrong sides together, and slipstitch to Jacket
around lower edges of Sleeves and Jacket, zipper opening and neck.




                           Walking & Talking


    WOMAN’S KNITTED JACKET SWEATER AND MAN’S ZIPPERED JACKET SWEATER

    [Illustration: Sweater]


WOMAN’S KNITTED JACKET SWEATER

Sizes: Small (6-8), Medium (10-12), Large (14-16). Directions are given
for Small size. Changes for Medium and Large are in parentheses.




Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  Dawn “Sayelle”[1]
  8—4-oz. skeins A—Amber
  Dawn “Wintuk”[1] Sport Yarn
  9—2-oz. skeins B—Lemon Spice

  1 pair 14 inch Knitting Needles Size 7 Or Any Size Needles Which Will
              Result In Stitch Gauge Below

  6—⅞″ buttons

  1 spool STAR Super Strength Polyester Thread

  Gauge: Garter St—4 sts, 8 rows (4 ridges) = 1 inch; Pattern St—4 sts,
              8 rows = 1 inch

  Finished Measurements:
  Back Length—25¼ (26½, 28)″
  Bust—35¾ (37¾, 41¼)″
  Hip—37¾ (39¾, 43¼)″

Note: Work with double strand of yarn throughout, using 1 strand of A
and 1 strand of B. Sweater is worked in pattern stitch (knitting into
row below) with bands of garter stitch (k all rows). To dec: Work 2 sts
tog. To inc: Work 2 sts in 1 st.

    [Illustration: knitting into row below]


BACK

Starting at lower edge with size 7 needles and 1 strand each of A and B,
cast on 75 (79, 85) sts. ROWS 1-12: Work even in garter st. About 1½″
from beg. ROW 13: * K 1, k 1 into row below; repeat from * to last st, k
1 (see illus). ROWS 14-16: K across row. Repeat Rows 13-16 for pat. ROWS
17-81 (85, 89): Work even in pat. ROWS 82-102 (86-106, 90-110): Working
in pat as established, dec 1 st at beg and end of this and every 20th
row once more—71 (75, 81) sts. ROWS 103-128 (107-134, 111-140): Work
even in pat.

START ARMHOLE BANDS: ROW 129 (135, 141): K 16 (18, 20), work in pat
across 39 (39, 41) sts, k remaining 16 (18, 20) sts. ROW 130 (136, 142):
K across row. ROWS 131-140 (137-146, 143-152): Work even in garter st at
beg and end of row and pat st in center. About 17½ (18¼, 19)″ from beg.

SHAPE ARMHOLES: ROWS 1 & 2: Working in pat as established, bind off 10
(12, 14) sts at beg of each row—51 (51, 53) sts. ROWS 3-56 (60, 66):
Work even on 6 garter sts, 39 (39, 41) sts of pat and 6 garter sts.

SHAPE NECK: ROW 57 (61, 67): Work in pat across 17 sts, attach 2nd
double strand and bind off center 17 (17, 19) sts, work in pat across
row. ROWS 58-60 (62-64, 68-70): Working both sides at once, dec 1 st at
each neck edge at this and every other row once more—15 sts on each
shoulder for all sizes. About 7½ (8, 8¾)″ from beg of armhole.

SHAPE SHOULDERS: ROWS 61 & 62 (65 & 66, 71 & 72): Bind off 6 sts at beg
of each row and at same time continue to dec 1 st at each neck edge
every other row. ROW 63 (67, 73): Bind off remaining 8 sts on both
sides.


RIGHT FRONT

Starting at lower edge, cast on 41 (43, 47) sts. ROWS 1-12: Work even in
garter st. START BUTTONHOLE BAND: ROW 13: K 6 sts for band, * k 1 into
row below, k 1; repeat from * to last st, k 1. ROWS 14-16: K across row.
Repeat Rows 13-16 for pat. ROWS 17 & 18 (Small size only): Work even in
pat. ROW 19 (17, 17) (Buttonhole Row): K 2, bind off next 2 sts, work as
established across row. ROW 20 (18, 18): K across row to bound off sts,
cast on 2 sts over bound off sts, k 2. Note: Continue to make a
buttonhole in buttonhole band every 29 & 30 (31 & 32, 33 & 34) rows or
after completing 14 (15, 16) ridges. Six buttonholes are completed on
all sizes. ROWS 21-81 (19-85, 19-89): Work even in pat. ROWS 82-102
(86-106, 90-110): Working in pat as established, dec 1 st at beg of this
and every 20th row once more—39 (41, 45) sts. ROWS 103-128 (107-134,
111-140): Work even in pat. START ARMHOLE BAND: ROW 129 (135, 141): K 6,
work in pat across 17 (17, 19) sts, k remaining 16 (18, 20) sts. ROW 130
(136, 142): K across row. ROWS 131-140 (137-146, 143-152): Work even in
garter st at beg and end of row and pat st in center. SHAPE ARMHOLE: ROW
1: Work even in pat. ROW 2: Bind off 10 (12, 14) sts at beg of row, work
in pat across row—29 (29, 31) sts. ROWS 3-38 (40, 44): Work even on 6
garter sts, 17 (17, 19) sts of pat and 6 garter sts. About 22¼ (23¼,
24½)″ from beg. SHAPE NECK: ROW 39 (41, 45): Bind off 6 garter sts at
beg of row, work in pat across row—23 (23, 25) sts. ROWS 40-56 (42-58,
46-62): Working in pat as established, dec 1 st at neck edge at this and
every other row 8 (8, 10) times more—14 sts. ROWS 57-61 (59-65, 63-71):
Work even in pat. SHAPE SHOULDER: ROW 62 (66, 72): Bind off 6 sts at beg
of row. ROW 63 (67, 73): Bind off remaining 8 sts.


LEFT FRONT

Work same as Right Front, reversing all shaping, omitting buttonholes in
buttonhole band and starting armhole shaping on Row 1 of Shape Armhole.


SLEEVES

Starting at cuff, cast on 57 (61, 67) sts. ROWS 1-40: Work even in
garter st. About 5″ from beg. START SLEEVE: ROWS 41-122 (128, 134): Work
even in pat same as Rows 13-16 of Back. ROWS 123-143 (129-149, 135-155):
Working in pat as established, inc 1 st at beg and end of this and every
20th row once more—61 (65, 71) sts. ROWS 144-192 (150-198, 156-204):
Work even in pat. About 24 (24, 25½)″ from beg. ROW 193 (199, 205): Bind
off all sts in pat.


POCKET (Make 2)

Starting at lower edge, cast on 20 sts. ROWS 1-40: Work even in garter
st. About 5″ from beg. ROW 41: Bind off all sts.


FINISHING

Steam pieces lightly. Join shoulder seams.


HOOD

With right side facing, pick up and k 48 (50, 54) sts around neckline,
omitting tops of front bands. ROWS 1-3: Work even in garter st. ROW 4: K
4 (5, 4), inc 1 st in next st, * k 7 (9, 8), inc 1 st in next st; repeat
from * to last 3 (4, 4) sts, k 3 (4, 4)—54 (55, 60) sts. ROW 5: Work
even. ROW 6: K 4 (5, 5), inc 1 st in next st, * k 8 (10, 9), inc 1 st in
next st; repeat from * to last 4 (5, 4) sts, k 4 (5, 4)—60 (60, 66) sts.
ROW 7: Work even. ROW 8: K 2 (2, 3), inc 1 st in next st, * k 3 (3, 5),
inc 1 st in next st; repeat from * to last 1 (1, 2) sts, k 1 (1, 2)—75
(75, 77) sts. ROWS 9-13: Work even in garter st. ROW 14: K 6, work in
pat st same as Row 13 of Back to last 6 sts, k 6. ROWS 15-17: K across
row. Repeat Rows 14-17 for pat. ROWS 18-96 (100, 104): Work even in
garter st at beg and end of row and pat st in center. About 12 (12½,
13)″ from beg. SHAPE CROWN: ROW 97 (101, 105): K across row. ROW 98
(102, 106): Working in pat, bind off 28 (28, 29) sts at beg of row, work
across 18 sts, attach 2nd double strand and bind off remaining 28 (28,
29) sts. ROWS 99-142 (103-148, 107-152): Work even in pat. ROWS 143-153
(149-159, 153-163): Work even in garter st. ROW 154 (160, 164): Bind
off.


FINISHING

Join sides of Hood to center, matching garter st bands at front edge.
Sew 2″ of upper sleeve to underarm bindoffs and sew top of sleeve into
open armhole. Sew sleeve and side seams. (Note: Cuff is worn turned up
to desired depth. Join seam so that it does not show when worn.) Sew
pockets to fronts, 2″ up from lower band and 3″ in from side edges of
center bands. With thread, sew buttons opposite buttonholes.


MAN’S ZIPPERED JACKET SWEATER

  Sizes: Small (38), Medium (40), Large (42). Directions are for size
              Small.
  Changes for sizes Medium and Large are in parentheses.




Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  Dawn “Wintuk”[1] Sport Yarn
  15 (17, 19) 2-oz. skeins Red Spice

  1 Crochet Hook Size H Or Any Size Hook Which Will Result In Stitch
              Gauge Below
  1 Crochet Hook Size G
  1 yarn needle

  1 STAR Metal Separating Heavyweight Zipper—18″ long
  1 spool STAR 100% Polyester Thread

  Gauge: Pattern St: 3 sts = 1 inch; 4 rows (Rows 2-5) = 1½ inches

  Finished Measurements:
  Chest—42 (44½, 47)″

Pattern Stitch: Main pieces of garment are worked in alternating rows of
sc and dc with raised dc. Ch 3 counts as first dc on all rows of dc and
raised dc. To work a raised dc: Yo, insert hook from right to left under
post of next dc on last dc row completed, finish dc, lengthening loops
so that work remains flat. Repeat Rows 2-5 of Back Main Piece for pat.
Always keep in pat when dec or inc. To dec at beg of row: Sl st over
specified number of sts. To dec at end of row: Leave specified number of
sts unworked. To inc at beg of dc row: Work 2 dc (ch 3 counts as 1 dc)
in first st. To inc at end of dc row: Work 2 dc in last st. To inc on
neck ribbing: Work 2 sl sts in one st. To dec on neck ribbing: Sk first
sl st. To dec on pocket lining: Draw up a lp in each of first 2 sts, yo
and draw through all 3 lps on hook. Ch 1 to turn all rows on Neck
Ribbing and Pocket Lining.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


BACK

WAISTBAND RIBBING (Worked vertically): Starting at side edge with size H
crochet hook and double strand of yarn, ch 13. ROW 1: Sl st in 2nd ch
from hook and each ch across—12 sl sts. Ch 1, turn. ROW 2: Working in
back lps only, sl st in each st across—12 sl sts. Ch 1, turn. ROWS 3-62
(66, 70): Repeat Row 2, ending Row 62 (66, 70) with ch 3. Turn waistband
sideways.

MAIN PIECE: ROW 1: Working across one long edge of waistband, dc in end
st of second to last row of ribbing and each row across—62 (66, 70) dc.
Ch 1, turn. ROW 2: Sc in each st across—62 (66, 70) sc. Ch 3, turn. ROW
3: Sk first st, * dc in next st, raised dc in next st on Row 1; repeat
from * to last st, dc in last st—62 (66, 70) sts. Ch 1, turn. ROW 4:
Repeat Row 2. ROW 5: Sk first st, * raised dc in next st of Row 3, dc in
next st of Row 4; repeat from * to last st, dc in last st—62 (66, 70)
sts. Ch 1, turn. Repeat Rows 2-5 for pat. ROWS 6-33: Work even in pat.

SHAPE ARMHOLES: ROW 34: Dec 4 sts at beg and end of row—54 (58, 62) sts.
ROWS 35-37: Dec 1 st at beg and end of each row—48 (52, 56) sts. ROWS
38-53 (55, 57): Work even in pat.

SHAPE SHOULDER: ROWS 54 & 55 (56 & 57, 58 & 59): Dec 5 (6, 6) sts at beg
and end of each row—28 (28, 32) sts. ROW 56 (58, 60): Dec 6 (6, 7) sts
at beg and end of row—16 (16, 18) sts remain for back of neck. Fasten
off.


LEFT FRONT

WAISTBAND RIBBING: ROWS 1-32 (34, 36): With size H crochet hook, work
same as ribbing for Back, ending Row 32 (34, 36) with ch 3. MAIN PIECE:
ROW 1: Dc across long edge of waistband same as Back—32 (34, 36) dc.
Place a marker at end of row for matching fronts. Ch 1, turn. ROWS 2-4:
Work in pat same as for Back.

START POCKET OPENING: ROW 5: Work in pat in 10 (10, 12) sts. ROWS 6-21:
Work even in pat—10 (10, 12) sts. Cut yarn.

FINISH POCKET OPENING: ROW 5: Pull up a lp of double strand of yarn in
11 (11, 13)th st, work in pat across row—22 (24, 24) sts. ROWS 6-21:
Work even in pat. ROWS 22-33: Work even in pat across entire row—32 (34,
36) sts.

SHAPE ARMHOLE: ROW 34: Dec 4 sts at end of row. ROW 35: Dec 1 st at beg
of row. ROW 36: Dec 1 st at end of row. ROW 37: Repeat Row 35—25 (27,
29) sts. ROWS 38-47: Work even in pat.

SHAPE NECK: ROW 48: Dec 5 sts at beg of row. ROW 49: Dec 1 st at end of
row. ROW 50: Dec 1 st at beg of row. ROWS 51 & 52: Repeat Rows 49 & 50.
ROW 53: For Large size only: Repeat Row 49. ROWS 53 (53-55, 54-57): Work
even—16 (18, 19) sts. ROW 54 (56, 58): Dec 5 (6, 6) sts at end of row.
ROW 55 (57, 59): Dec 5 (6, 6) sts at beg of row—6 (6, 7) sts. ROW 56
(58, 60): Work even. Fasten off.


RIGHT FRONT

With size H crochet hook work ribbing same as Left Front. Work Main
Piece same as Left Front, placing a marker at beg of Row 1 for matching
fronts, and reversing all shaping.


SLEEVE (Make 2)

RIBBING: ROWS 1-34 (36, 38): With size H crochet hook, work same as
ribbing for Back, ending Row 34 (36, 38) with ch 3. MAIN PIECE: ROW 1:
Dc across long edge of ribbing same as for Back—34 (36, 38) dc. ROWS
2-8: Work even in pat. ROWS 9-39: Inc 1 st at beg and end of this and
every 6th row 5 times more—46 (48, 50) sts. ROWS 40-43: Work even in
pat.

SHAPE CAP: ROW 44: Dec 4 sts at beg and end of row—38 (40, 42) sts. ROW
45: Work even. ROWS 46-55: Dec 1 st at beg and end of this and every
other row 4 times more—28 (30, 32) sts. ROWS 56-61 (62, 63): Dec 1 st at
beg and end of each row—16 sts remain on all sizes. Fasten off.


NECKBAND RIBBING

With size G crochet hook and double strand of yarn, ch 4. ROW 1: Sl st
in 2nd ch from hook and each ch across—3 sl sts. Ch 1, turn. ROWS 2-12:
Working sl st in back loops only, inc 1 st at beg of this and every
other row 5 times more—9 sl sts. ROWS 13-65 (73, 81): Work even. ROWS
66-76 (74-84, 82-92): Dec 1 st at beg of this and every other row 5
times more—3 sl sts. ROW 77 (85, 93): Work even. Fasten off.


POCKET LINING (Make 4)

With size G crochet hook and single strand of yarn, ch 25 loosely. About
6″ from beg. ROW 1: Sc in 2nd ch from hook and each ch across—24 sc. Ch
1, turn. ROW 2: Sc in each st across—24 sc. ROWS 3-21: Work even. ROWS
22-27: Dec 1 st at beg of each row—18 sc. Fasten off.


FINISHING

Weave together side seams and sleeve seams. Sew shoulder seams. Set in
sleeves. FRONT EDGE: With right side facing and starting at bottom of
right front ribbing with double strand of yarn and size H crochet hook,
pull up a lp, ch 1, sc in same place, sc in every row up front to neck
edge. Ch 1, turn. Working in back lps only, sl st in each st down front.
Ch 1, turn. Sl st in each st to neck edge, sc evenly around neck
(holding in to fit) and down every row on left front. Ch 1, turn. Work 2
rows of sl st along left front, same way as right front. Fasten off.
With right sides tog, place bottom edge of neckband on neckline just
below finishing edge of sc on neckline. Sew neckband to neckline,
adjusting to fit. Place zipper tape under front edgings and sew zipper
to fronts with thread.

POCKET FRONT OPENINGS: Finish same way as Front Edging with 1 row sc and
2 rows sl st. POCKET BACK OPENINGS: Finish with 1 row sl st. POCKETS
(Make 2): Place right sides of 2 pocket lining pieces tog. With size G
crochet hook and single strand of yarn and working through both
thicknesses, pull up a lp at beg of one long shaped side, ch 1, sc in
same place, sc evenly along edge of one shaped side, one short side and
other shaped side. Fasten off. Insert pocket lining into Jacket with
wrong sides of Jacket and pocket lining tog. Sew back edge of open side
of pocket lining to back of pocket opening in Jacket. Sew front edge of
open pocket lining to front of pocket opening in Jacket, leaving front
pocket edging free. Tack ends of front pocket edging in place.
(Optional: Lightly block finished garment.)

           KNIT ABBREVIATIONS

  k           knit
  p           purl
  st (s)      stitch (es)
  yo          yarn over
  dec         decrease
  inc         increase
  tog         together
  beg         beginning
  rnd         round
  psso        pass slip stitch over
  sk          skip
  sl          slip
  dpn         double pointed needle
  pat         pattern
  ( )—Work directions in parentheses the number of times indicated by
  number following. Thus “(sl 1, k 1, psso) twice” means 2 repeats in
  all.

          CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  ch          chain
  sc          single crochet
  dc          double crochet
  hdc         half double crochet
  tr          treble crochet
  d tr        double treble crochet
  tr tr       triple treble crochet
  st (s)      stitch (es)
  sl st       slip stitch
  sk          skip
  lp          loop
  sp          space
  rnd         round
  pat         pattern
  ( )—Work directions in parentheses the number of times indicated by
  number following. Thus “(dc, ch 1) 4 times” means 4 repeats in all.

           FOR KNIT & CROCHET

  Asterisk...*. This indicates that the directions immediately
  following are to be repeated the given number of times in addition
  to the ones already given. Thus “repeat from * 3 times” means 4
  patterns in all.


[1]Dupont Certification Mark For Yarns Meeting Its Fiber Content
    Specifications


® Trademark Of Monsanto

Printed in U S A

    [Illustration: american thread
    HIGH RIDGE PARK, STAMFORD, CONN., 06905]

    [Illustration: Back cover]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOOK NO. 006: BULKIES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
